
--- PAGE 35 ---
GENESIS  32 
 
32
saw that it was good. 13 And there was evening and there was 
morning, the third day. 
 
14 And God said, "Let there be lights in the dome of the sky to 
separate the day from the night; and let them be for signs and for 
seasons and for days and years, 15 and let them be lights in the dome 
of the sky to give light upon the earth." And it was so. 16 God made 
the two great lights — the greater light to rule the day and the lesser 
light to rule the night — and the stars. 17 God set them in the dome of 
the sky to give light upon the earth, 18 to rule over the day and over 
the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw 
that it was good. 19 And there was evening and there was morning, 
the fourth day. 
 
20 And God said, "Let the waters bring forth swarms of living 
creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the dome of the sky." 
21 So God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that 
moves, of every kind, with which the waters swarm, and every winged 
bird of every kind. And God saw that it was good. 22 God blessed 
them, saying, "Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, 
and let birds multiply on the earth." 23 And there was evening and 
there was morning, the fifth day. 
 
24 And God said, "Let the earth bring forth living creatures of every 
kind: cattle and creeping things and wild animals of the earth of every 
kind." And it was so. 25 God made the wild animals of the earth of 
every kind, and the cattle of every kind, and everything that creeps 
upon the ground of every kind. And God saw that it was good. 
 
26 Then God said, "Let us make humankind in our image, according to 
our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and 
over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the wild 
animals of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon 
the earth." 
 
27 So God created humankind in his image, 
 
in the image of God he created them; 
 
male and female he created them. 

--- PAGE 36 ---
GENESIS  33 
 
33
28 God blessed them, and God said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply, 
and fill the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the 
sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves 
upon the earth." 29 God said, "See, I have given you every plant 
yielding seed that is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree with 
seed in its fruit; you shall have them for food. 30 And to every beast of 
the earth, and to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on 
the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every 
green plant for food." And it was so. 31 God saw everything that he 
had made, and indeed, it was very good. And there was evening and 
there was morning, the sixth day. 
 
[Genesis 2] 
 
1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all their multitude. 
2 And on the seventh day God finished the work that he had done, and 
he rested on the seventh day from all the work that he had done. 3 So 
God blessed the seventh day and hallowed it, because on it God rested 
from all the work that he had done in creation. 
 
4 These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they 
were created. 
 
Creation in the garden 
 
In the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens, 5 when 
no plant of the field was yet in the earth and no herb of the field had 
yet sprung up — for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the 
earth, and there was no one to till the ground; 6 but a stream would 
rise from the earth, and water the whole face of the ground — 7 then 
the LORD God formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed 
into his nostrils the breath of life; and the man became a living being. 
8 And the LORD God planted a garden in Eden, in the east; and there 
he put the man whom he had formed. 9 Out of the ground the LORD 
God made to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for 
food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of 
the knowledge of good and evil. 
 

--- PAGE 37 ---
GENESIS  34 
 
34
10 A river flows out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it 
divides and becomes four branches. 11 The name of the first is Pishon; it 
is the one that flows around the whole land of Havilah, where there is 
gold; 12 and the gold of that land is good; bdellium and onyx stone are 
there. 13 The name of the second river is Gihon; it is the one that flows 
around the whole land of Cush. 14 The name of the third river is Tigris, 
which flows east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. 
 
15 The LORD God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to 
till it and keep it. 16 And the LORD God commanded the man, "You may 
freely eat of every tree of the garden; 17 but of the tree of the 
knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you 
eat of it you shall die." 
 
18 Then the LORD God said, "It is not good that the man should be 
alone; I will make him a helper as his partner." 19 So out of the ground 
the LORD God formed every animal of the field and every bird of the 
air, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them; and 
whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. 20 
The man gave names to all cattle, and to the birds of the air, and to 
every animal of the field; but for the man there was not found a helper 
as his partner. 21 So the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the 
man, and he slept; then he took one of his ribs and closed up its place 
with flesh. 22 And the rib that the LORD God had taken from the man 
he made into a woman and brought her to the man. 23 Then the man 
said, 
     "This at last is bone of my bones 
 
and flesh of my flesh; 
     this one shall be called Woman, 
 
for out of Man this one was taken." 
24 Therefore a man leaves his father and his mother and clings to his 
wife, and they become one flesh. 25 And the man and his wife were 
both naked, and were not ashamed. 
 

--- PAGE 38 ---
GENESIS  35 
 
35
[Genesis 3] 
Garden disobedience and punishment 
 
1 Now the serpent was more crafty than any other wild animal that the 
LORD God had made. He said to the woman, "Did God say, 'You shall 
not eat from any tree in the garden'?" 2 The woman said to the 
serpent, "We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden; 3 but God 
said, 'You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of 
the garden, nor shall you touch it, or you shall die.'" 4 But the serpent 
said to the woman, "You will not die; 5 for God knows that when you 
eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing 
good and evil." 6 So when the woman saw that the tree was good for 
food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be 
desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate; and she also 
gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate. 7 Then the 
eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and 
they sewed fig leaves together and made loincloths for themselves. 
 
8 They heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden at the 
time of the evening breeze, and the man and his wife hid themselves 
from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden. 9 
But the LORD God called to the man, and said to him, "Where are you?" 
10 He said, "I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, 
because I was naked; and I hid myself." 11 He said, "Who told you that 
you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded 
you not to eat?" 12 The man said, "The woman whom you gave to be 
with me, she gave me fruit from the tree, and I ate." 13 Then the LORD 
God said to the woman, "What is this that you have done?" The 
woman said, "The serpent tricked me, and I ate." 14 The LORD God said 
to the serpent, 
    "Because you have done this, 
 
cursed are you among all animals 
 
and among all wild creatures; 
    upon your belly you shall go, 
 
and dust you shall eat 
 
all the days of your life. 

--- PAGE 39 ---
GENESIS  36 
 
36
15 I will put enmity between you and the woman, 
 
and between your offspring and hers; 
    he will strike your head, 
 
and you will strike his heel." 
16 To the woman he said, 
     "I will greatly increase your pangs in childbearing; 
 
in pain you shall bring forth children, 
     yet your desire shall be for your husband, 
 
and he shall rule over you." 
17 And to the man he said, 
     "Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, 
 
and have eaten of the tree 
     about which I commanded you, 
 
'You shall not eat of it,' 
     cursed is the ground because of you; 
 
in toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life; 
18 thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you; 
 
and you shall eat the plants of the field. 
19 By the sweat of your face 
 
you shall eat bread 
     until you return to the ground, 
 
for out of it you were taken; 
     you are dust, 
 
and to dust you shall return." 
 
20 The man named his wife Eve, because she was the mother of all 
living. 21 And the LORD God made garments of skins for the man and 
for his wife, and clothed them. 
 
22 Then the LORD God said, "See, the man has become like one of us, 
knowing good and evil; and now, he might reach out his hand and 
take also from the tree of life, and eat, and live forever" — 23 
therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till 
the ground from which he was taken. 24 He drove out the man; and at 
the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubim, and a sword 
flaming and turning to guard the way to the tree of life. 
 

--- PAGE 40 ---
GENESIS  37 
 
37
[Genesis 4] 
Cain and Abel 
 
1 Now the man knew his wife Eve, and she conceived and bore Cain, 
saying, "I have produced a man with the help of the LORD." 2 Next she 
bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a 
tiller of the ground. 3 In the course of time Cain brought to the LORD 
an offering of the fruit of the ground, 4 and Abel for his part brought 
of the firstlings of his flock, their fat portions. And the LORD had regard 
for Abel and his offering, 5 but for Cain and his offering he had no 
regard. So Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. 6 The LORD 
said to Cain, "Why are you angry, and why has your countenance 
fallen? 7 If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do 
well, sin is lurking at the door; its desire is for you, but you must master 
it." 
 
8 Cain said to his brother Abel, "Let us go out to the field." And when 
they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel, and killed 
him. 9 Then the LORD said to Cain, "Where is your brother Abel?" He 
said, "I do not know; am I my brother's keeper?" 10 And the LORD said, 
"What have you done? Listen; your brother's blood is crying out to me 
from the ground! 11 And now you are cursed from the ground, which 
has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. 
12 When you till the ground, it will no longer yield to you its strength; 
you will be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth." 13 Cain said to the 
LORD, "My punishment is greater than I can bear! 14 Today you have 
driven me away from the soil, and I shall be hidden from your face; I 
shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and anyone who 
meets me may kill me." 15 Then the LORD said to him, "Not so! 
Whoever kills Cain will suffer a sevenfold vengeance." And the LORD 
put a mark on Cain, so that no one who came upon him would kill him. 
16 Then Cain went away from the presence of the LORD, and settled in 
the land of Nod, east of Eden. 
 
First overview of generations from creation to flood 
 
17 Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch; and he built 
a city, and named it Enoch after his son Enoch. 18 To Enoch was born 

--- PAGE 41 ---
GENESIS  38 
 
38
Irad; and Irad was the father of Mehujael, and Mehujael the father of 
Methushael, and Methushael the father of Lamech. 19 Lamech took 
two wives; the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other 
Zillah. 20 Adah bore Jabal; he was the ancestor of those who live in 
tents and have livestock. 21 His brother's name was Jubal; he was the 
ancestor of all those who play the lyre and pipe. 22 Zillah bore Tubal-
cain, who made all kinds of bronze and iron tools. The sister of Tubal-
cain was Naamah. 
 
23 Lamech said to his wives: 
     "Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; 
 
you wives of Lamech, listen to what I say: 
     I have killed a man for wounding me, 
 
a young man for striking me. 
24 If Cain is avenged sevenfold, 
 
truly Lamech seventy-sevenfold." 
 
25 Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and named him Seth, 
for she said, "God has appointed for me another child instead of Abel, 
because Cain killed him." 26 To Seth also a son was born, and he 
named him Enosh. At that time people began to invoke the name of 
the LORD. 
 
[Genesis 5] 
Second overview of generations from creation to flood 
 
1 This is the list of the descendants of Adam. When God created 
humankind, he made them in the likeness of God. 2 Male and female 
he created them, and he blessed them and named them "Humankind" 
when they were created. 
 
3 When Adam had lived one hundred thirty years, he became the 
father of a son in his likeness, according to his image, and named him 
Seth. 4 The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were 
eight hundred years; and he had other sons and daughters. 5 Thus all 
the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years; and he died. 
 

--- PAGE 42 ---
GENESIS  39 
 
39
6 When Seth had lived one hundred five years, he became the father of 
Enosh. 7 Seth lived after the birth of Enosh eight hundred seven years, 
and had other sons and daughters. 8 Thus all the days of Seth were 
nine hundred twelve years; and he died. 
 
9 When Enosh had lived ninety years, he became the father of Kenan. 
10 Enosh lived after the birth of Kenan eight hundred fifteen years, 
and had other sons and daughters. 11 Thus all the days of Enosh were 
nine hundred five years; and he died. 
 
12 When Kenan had lived seventy years, he became the father of 
Mahalalel. 13 Kenan lived after the birth of Mahalalel eight hundred 
and forty years, and had other sons and daughters. 14 Thus all the days 
of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years; and he died. 
 
15 When Mahalalel had lived sixty-five years, he became the father of 
Jared. 16 Mahalalel lived after the birth of Jared eight hundred thirty 
years, and had other sons and daughters. 17 Thus all the days of 
Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years; and he died. 
 
18 When Jared had lived one hundred sixty-two years he became the 
father of Enoch. 19 Jared lived after the birth of Enoch eight hundred 
years, and had other sons and daughters. 20 Thus all the days of Jared 
were nine hundred sixty-two years; and he died. 
 
 
21 When Enoch had lived sixty-five years, he became the father of 
Methuselah. 22 Enoch walked with God after the birth of Methuselah 
three hundred years, and had other sons and daughters. 23 Thus all the 
days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years. 24 Enoch walked 
with God; then he was no more, because God took him. 
 
25 When Methuselah had lived one hundred eighty-seven years, he 
became the father of Lamech. 26 Methuselah lived after the birth of 
Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years, and had other sons and 
daughters. 27 Thus all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-
nine years; and he died. 
 

--- PAGE 43 ---
GENESIS  40 
 
40
28 When Lamech had lived one hundred eighty-two years, he became 
the father of a son; 29 he named him Noah, saying, "Out of the ground 
that the LORD has cursed this one shall bring us relief from our work 
and from the toil of our hands." 30 Lamech lived after the birth of 
Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and had other sons and 
daughters. 31 Thus all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-
seven years; and he died. 
 
32 After Noah was five hundred years old, Noah became the father of 
Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
 
[Genesis 6] 
Divine-human reproduction 
 
1 When people began to multiply on the face of the ground, and 
daughters were born to them, 2 the sons of God saw that they were 
fair; and they took wives for themselves of all that they chose. 3 Then 
the LORD said, "My spirit shall not abide in mortals forever, for they are 
flesh; their days shall be one hundred twenty years." 4 The Nephilim 
were on the earth in those days — and also afterward — when the 
sons of God went in to the daughters of humans, who bore children to 
them. These were the heroes that were of old, warriors of renown. 
 
The great flood 
 
5 The LORD saw that the wickedness of humankind was great in the 
earth, and that every inclination of the thoughts of their hearts was 
only evil continually. 6 And the LORD was sorry that he had made 
humankind on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. 7 So the LORD 
said, "I will blot out from the earth the human beings I have created — 
people together with animals and creeping things and birds of the air, 
for I am sorry that I have made them." 8 But Noah found favor in the 
sight of the LORD. 
 
9 These are the descendants of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, 
blameless in his generation; Noah walked with God. 10 And Noah had 
three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 

--- PAGE 44 ---
GENESIS  41 
 
41
11 Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled 
with violence. 12 And God saw that the earth was corrupt; for all flesh 
had corrupted its ways upon the earth. 13 And God said to Noah, "I 
have determined to make an end of all flesh, for the earth is filled with 
violence because of them; now I am going to destroy them along with 
the earth. 14 Make yourself an ark of cypress wood; make rooms in the 
ark, and cover it inside and out with pitch. 15 This is how you are to 
make it: the length of the ark three hundred cubits, its width fifty 
cubits, and its height thirty cubits. 16 Make a roof for the ark, and 
finish it to a cubit above; and put the door of the ark in its side; make 
it with lower, second, and third decks. 17 For my part, I am going to 
bring a flood of waters on the earth, to destroy from under heaven all 
flesh in which is the breath of life; everything that is on the earth shall 
die. 18 But I will establish my covenant with you; and you shall come 
into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you. 
19 And of every living thing, of all flesh, you shall bring two of every 
kind into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and 
female. 20 Of the birds according to their kinds, and of the animals 
according to their kinds, of every creeping thing of the ground 
according to its kind, two of every kind shall come in to you, to keep 
them alive. 21 Also take with you every kind of food that is eaten, and 
store it up; and it shall serve as food for you and for them." 22 Noah 
did this; he did all that God commanded him. 
 
[Genesis 7] 
 
1 Then the LORD said to Noah, "Go into the ark, you and all your 
household, for I have seen that you alone are righteous before me in 
this generation. 2 Take with you seven pairs of all clean animals, the 
male and its mate; and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the 
male and its mate; 3 and seven pairs of the birds of the air also, male 
and female, to keep their kind alive on the face of all the earth. 4 For 
in seven days I will send rain on the earth for forty days and forty 
nights; and every living thing that I have made I will blot out from the 
face of the ground." 5 And Noah did all that the LORD had commanded 
him. 
 

--- PAGE 45 ---
GENESIS  42 
 
42
6 Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came on 
the earth. 7 And Noah with his sons and his wife and his sons' wives 
went into the ark to escape the waters of the flood. 8 Of clean animals, 
and of animals that are not clean, and of birds, and of everything that 
creeps on the ground, 9 two and two, male and female, went into the 
ark with Noah, as God had commanded Noah. 10 And after seven days 
the waters of the flood came on the earth. 
 
11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the 
seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the 
great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened. 
12 The rain fell on the earth forty days and forty nights. 13 On the very 
same day Noah with his sons, Shem and Ham and Japheth, and Noah's 
wife and the three wives of his sons entered the ark, 14 they and every 
wild animal of every kind, and all domestic animals of every kind, and 
every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, and every bird of every 
kind — every bird, every winged creature. 15 They went into the ark 
with Noah, two and two of all flesh in which there was the breath of 
life. 16 And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as 
God had commanded him; and the LORD shut him in. 
 
17 The flood continued forty days on the earth; and the waters 
increased, and bore up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. 18 
The waters swelled and increased greatly on the earth; and the ark 
floated on the face of the waters. 19 The waters swelled so mightily on 
the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven were 
covered; 20 the waters swelled above the mountains, covering them 
fifteen cubits deep. 21 And all flesh died that moved on the earth, 
birds, domestic animals, wild animals, all swarming creatures that 
swarm on the earth, and all human beings; 22 everything on dry land in 
whose nostrils was the breath of life died. 23 He blotted out every 
living thing that was on the face of the ground, human beings and 
animals and creeping things and birds of the air; they were blotted out 
from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those that were with him in 
the ark. 24 And the waters swelled on the earth for one hundred fifty 
days. 
 

--- PAGE 46 ---
GENESIS  43 
 
43
[Genesis 8] 
Divine commitments after the flood 
 
1 But God remembered Noah and all the wild animals and all the 
domestic animals that were with him in the ark. And God made a wind 
blow over the earth, and the waters subsided; 2 the fountains of the 
deep and the windows of the heavens were closed, the rain from the 
heavens was restrained, 3 and the waters gradually receded from the 
earth. At the end of one hundred fifty days the waters had abated; 4 
and in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the 
ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. 5 The waters continued to 
abate until the tenth month; in the tenth month, on the first day of 
the month, the tops of the mountains appeared. 
 
6 At the end of forty days Noah opened the window of the ark that he 
had made 7 and sent out the raven; and it went to and fro until the 
waters were dried up from the earth. 8 Then he sent out the dove from 
him, to see if the waters had subsided from the face of the ground; 9 
but the dove found no place to set its foot, and it returned to him to 
the ark, for the waters were still on the face of the whole earth. So he 
put out his hand and took it and brought it into the ark with him. 10 
He waited another seven days, and again he sent out the dove from 
the ark; 11 and the dove came back to him in the evening, and there in 
its beak was a freshly plucked olive leaf; so Noah knew that the waters 
had subsided from the earth. 12 Then he waited another seven days, 
and sent out the dove; and it did not return to him any more. 
 
13 In the six hundred first year, in the first month, on the first day of 
the month, the waters were dried up from the earth; and Noah 
removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and saw that the face of 
the ground was drying. 14 In the second month, on the twenty-seventh 
day of the month, the earth was dry. 15 Then God said to Noah, 16 "Go 
out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and your sons' wives 
with you. 17 Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all 
flesh — birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the 
earth — so that they may abound on the earth, and be fruitful and 
multiply on the earth." 18 So Noah went out with his sons and his wife 
and his sons' wives. 19 And every animal, every creeping thing, and 

--- PAGE 47 ---
GENESIS  44 
 
44
every bird, everything that moves on the earth, went out of the ark by 
families. 
 
20 Then Noah built an altar to the LORD, and took of every clean animal 
and of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. 21 
And when the LORD smelled the pleasing odor, the LORD said in his 
heart, "I will never again curse the ground because of humankind, for 
the inclination of the human heart is evil from youth; nor will I ever 
again destroy every living creature as I have done. 
 
22 As long as the earth endures, 
 
seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, 
     summer and winter, day and night, 
 
shall not cease." 
 
[Genesis 9] 
 
1 God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them, "Be fruitful and 
multiply, and fill the earth. 2 The fear and dread of you shall rest on 
every animal of the earth, and on every bird of the air, on everything 
that creeps on the ground, and on all the fish of the sea; into your 
hand they are delivered. 3 Every moving thing that lives shall be food 
for you; and just as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything. 4 
Only, you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. 5 For your 
own lifeblood I will surely require a reckoning: from every animal I will 
require it and from human beings, each one for the blood of another, I 
will require a reckoning for human life. 
 
6 Whoever sheds the blood of a human, 
 
by a human shall that person's blood be shed; 
   for in his own image God made humankind. 
7 And you, be fruitful and multiply, abound on the earth and multiply 
in it." 
 
8 Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him, 9 "As for me, I am 
establishing my covenant with you and your descendants after you, 10 
and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the domestic 
animals, and every animal of the earth with you, as many as came out 

--- PAGE 48 ---
GENESIS  45 
 
45
of the ark. 11 I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall 
all flesh be cut off by the waters of a flood, and never again shall there 
be a flood to destroy the earth." 12 God said, "This is the sign of the 
covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature 
that is with you, for all future generations: 13 I have set my bow in the 
clouds, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the 
earth. 14 When I bring clouds over the earth and the bow is seen in the 
clouds, 15 I will remember my covenant that is between me and you 
and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall never again 
become a flood to destroy all flesh. 16 When the bow is in the clouds, I 
will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and 
every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth." 17 God said to 
Noah, "This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between 
me and all flesh that is on the earth." 
 
Noah and his sons 
 
18 The sons of Noah who went out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and 
Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan. 19 These three were the sons 
of Noah; and from these the whole earth was peopled. 
 
20 Noah, a man of the soil, was the first to plant a vineyard. 21 He 
drank some of the wine and became drunk, and he lay uncovered in his 
tent. 22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his 
father, and told his two brothers outside. 23 Then Shem and Japheth 
took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders, and walked backward 
and covered the nakedness of their father; their faces were turned 
away, and they did not see their father's nakedness. 24 When Noah 
awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to 
him, 25 he said, 
     "Cursed be Canaan; 
 
lowest of slaves shall he be to his brothers." 
26 He also said, 
     "Blessed by the LORD my God be Shem; 
 
and let Canaan be his slave. 

--- PAGE 49 ---
GENESIS  46 
 
46
27 May God make space for Japheth, 
 
and let him live in the tents of Shem; 
 
and let Canaan be his slave." 
 
28 After the flood Noah lived three hundred fifty years. 29 All the days 
of Noah were nine hundred fifty years; and he died. 
 
[Genesis 10] 
The table of nations 
 
1 These are the descendants of Noah's sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth; 
children were born to them after the flood. 
 
2 The descendants of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, 
Meshech, and Tiras. 3 The descendants of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, 
and Togarmah. 4 The descendants of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, 
and Rodanim. 5 From these the coastland peoples spread. These are 
the descendants of Japheth in their lands, with their own language, by 
their families, in their nations. 
 
6 The descendants of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. 7 The 
descendants of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The 
descendants of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 8 Cush became the father 
of Nimrod; he was the first on earth to become a mighty warrior. 9 He 
was a mighty hunter before the LORD; therefore it is said, "Like Nimrod 
a mighty hunter before the LORD." 10 The beginning of his kingdom 
was Babel, Erech, and Accad, all of them in the land of Shinar. 11 From 
that land he went into Assyria, and built Nineveh, Rehoboth-ir, Calah, 
and 12 Resen between Nineveh and Calah; that is the great city. 13 
Egypt became the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim, 14 
Pathrusim, Casluhim, and Caphtorim, from which the Philistines come. 
 
15 Canaan became the father of Sidon his firstborn, and Heth, 16 and 
the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites, 17 the Hivites, the Arkites, 
the Sinites, 18 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. 
Afterward the families of the Canaanites spread abroad. 19 And the 
territory of the Canaanites extended from Sidon, in the direction of 
Gerar, as far as Gaza, and in the direction of Sodom, Gomorrah, 
